[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> New studies show that
optimism is linked to living
longer and those who feel
younger rehabilitate from
injury faster.
This is a "Gaia News Breakdown."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Health research has always
been overwhelmingly focused
on risk factors that
may predispose people
to disease and premature death.
The ever-growing field
of positive psychology,
however, is focused on
those positive attributes
and behaviors which
can on their own
promote health and longevity.
One such recent study, out
of the Harvard Chan School
of Public Health, looked
at the trait of optimism
as experienced by a group
of women, ages 50 to 79,
over the course of
several decades.
The study was unique
in that it studied
a large cohort of
people across a variety
of racial and ethnic
groups, to understand
whether optimism is affected
by such social structures.
At the completion of
this multi-year study,
findings showed that
the 25% of participants
who displayed the
most optimism were
likely to have a
5.5% longer lifespan
and a 10% greater likelihood
of living beyond 90 years.
These results were found to
have no correlation with race
or ethnicity.
And, quite interestingly,
researchers
found that lifestyle factors,
such as regular exercise
and healthy eating, accounted
for less than a quarter
of the optimism
lifespan association.
The trait of optimism
also seems to be at play
in another recent study.
In this investigation,
researchers
set out to study
whether subjective age,
or how old people
feel, is connected
to how well they heal.
The study, conducted by
Bar-Ilan University in Israel,
tracked nearly 200 seniors
undergoing rehabilitation
from fractures or stroke.
Patients were interviewed
throughout about
their subjective age.
The findings revealed that
those who felt younger
at hospital admission
had considerably better
physical outcomes at
discharge one month later.
Researchers also found
that those who felt younger
recovered better because
they were more optimistic
about their outcomes.
Most surprising is
that subjective age
was the strongest predictor
of positive outcomes,
even more so than
patients' chronological age
and other health conditions.
The study findings
will hopefully
lead to the design and
implementation of mental health
strategies to positively
affect people's subjective age
and a reminder
that how you think
can play a major
role in how you feel.
For a new perspective, this has
been a "Gaia News Breakdown."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this
content on "Gaia."